So, you come up with a new idea. Head over to cursor replet or builder to whip something up. It works great, but it doesn't look very good. So, in the next 6 minutes, I'm going to redesign a real vibecoded URL shortener into a usable and beautiful product, so that by the end, you can design and ship software that looks and feels flawless. The first problem is pretty painfully obvious. Get rid of the emojis. Admittedly, some apps like Notion successfully use them, but if we take this card and just swap to some more professional icons, it already starts looking better. I like phosphor icons, but Lucide or any other interface icon libraries work well, too. Along those same lines, never let an AI choose any of your colors. They always go for bright colors that don't really work well together. But all we need to do is change the backgrounds from dark blue to dark green. Remove these icons, expand these KPIs, and add in some micro charts. From before to after, we've added in much more relevant information and color through charts instead of buttons and icons. A few more color related changes, and we have the beginnings of a professional dashboard. And if you want a full deep dive on software color theory, check out my previous video right after this one. But just like you can tell when there's too many of these dashes that an AI wrote this, these four KPIs at the top show up not once, not twice, but three times in a small app. Bringing me to my next point. Never let an AI choose your layout either. Starting with the sidebar, if I'm in custom domains or teams, the amount of clicks and links doesn't really matter to me. If I need that information, I'll visit the dashboard or the analytics tab, which we definitely need to add. We'll align this to the left and tighten up the spacing, too. AI also loves to make these gradient profile circles with letters in them. So, let's swap this for an account card. And with that, we can get rid of these links and tuck them into a popover on click and collapse settings and billing and usage together. And finally for these cards, they're feeling a little busy. Let's collapse these buttons into a triple dot menu. Move the date to the center. Collapse these chips to just icons. And move clicks to the right. AI sets up logic well if you tell it to. And the same is true for features. For example, this create link flyyou is pretty sparse with fields even though we have a ton of space. Because of this, a modal is probably more fitting. Let's collapse down the advanced options by default and give this a bit of a more modern look. We're also missing a few options like allowing users to swap between their custom domain and link cards or add a description. This layout also allows for more features to easily slot in. And this is honestly where you can spend the least amount of time and see the largest changes since AI is generally pretty bad at putting together complex layouts and cards. Now, if you actually want to take your designs straight from Figma into productionready code, you should check out today's sponsor, builder.io. You can import your Figma designs directly. Drop in a screenshot, add a Slack thread with feedback, or even just describe what you need. And Builder.io works like an AI front-end engineer that actually understands your existing codebase and design system. But what I found really unique is the visual editor. You can drag and drop components, adjust spacing, tweak colors, and fine-tune layouts directly in the interface, and those changes get reflected in your actual codebase. I've been using it with one of my projects lately, and honestly, the workflow is pretty seamless. You can iterate visually without bouncing between tools and it generates production ready code that actually respects your design system. If you want to take your software to the next level, you can check out builder.io with the first link down below. Now coming over to the billing and usage page using our new popover. This page definitely needs some human touch. First, this card doesn't do anything. And that's a pattern you're going to see a lot with AI, so it can go. Then let's retitle this and create a few tabs since we're pretty much going to nuke this whole page and start from scratch. First, these KPIs are very vibe cody and lame. Instead, a real simple two column layout really elevates things, especially with a few small doughut charts. Now, in the billing tab, these plans down here are a bit of a mess. It doesn't make any sense that standard is less than hobby until you realize that this is discounted and team technically is too. At least we're going to assume that it is. Also, having five plans is really not ideal. Hobby probably makes the most sense to drop, but at least one of them needs to go. The hierarchy isn't bad, but I think we can tune it up a little with that extra width we have. Let's drop some of the unnecessary elements and adjust the colors. Drop the size of the name since no one cares about that. Increase the size of the cost per month since people do care about that. Business has become enterprise since if you need 50,000 links per month, you probably need more. Showing the actual discount the user is getting is very important. And also showing them what the next plan includes that the current plan doesn't have. This kind of pricing pattern is extremely common for softwares like resend or superbase. Finally, let's throw in a billing email and payment method for good measure. The pro of this layout is as things scale and you need to add documents, integrations or AI, it's easy to add another tab and go. Now, we've added in the analytics tab for a reason. So, let's use it. Let's first toss these KPIs as we discussed earlier along with these tabs. Now, when you're creating features for your SAS, don't forget about the lowhanging fruit. The simple features that make your app way better. First, let's move these actions down here and add a toggle to split into individual links. Doing this allows you to compare certain links against each other. Something super easy to implement and genuinely useful. Then, I'll shove a lot more useful information into this row with helpful icons that also add a splash of color. Finally, below that, instead of a boring bar chart, let's actually show them a map with shaded regions and the actual data to the left for a much more rich experience. Seriously, from start to finish on just analytics, we've created such a big change just by changing a few charts and adding in some icons. Finally, let's talk landing pages. This is where you'll lose most of your customers if you vibe code it. There's definitely a standard of quality on SAS landing pages that establishes trust, even subconsciously. Applying some of the color and layout principles we talked about helps, but what we really need are some graphics. Even adding something as stupid simple as link cards with some skew really starts to elevate the page. And instead of these lameass icons, we can use a slightly edited image of the analytics page we designed or same idea with password protection. Landing pages aren't about complexity, they're about presentation. And generally, the better the presentation, the better the conversion. And that is everything you'll need to turn your vibecoded app into a pro piece of software. If you'd like to check out builder.io, it'll be the very first link down below. And the link to all of the Figma assets will be down there, too. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next one.

Dashboards are a staple of any design portfolio, but most suck. Not because they're ugly, but because they're disorganized and messy. So, in this video, I'm going to show you how to design your very first dashboard UI completely from scratch in a way that's simple, aesthetic, and actually usable. And by the end, you won't just have a great-look layout. You'll understand why the best dashboards feel effortless to use. It starts with the sidebar, which houses most of the persistent and globally relevant elements. Think about it as the spine of your product. Elements like navigation, profile management and search are typically in here, but sometimes profile management and search can go in the top bar, too. Starting from the top, sometimes a logo is put up here, but I find this a more convenient spot for profile management. A profile picture makes it easy to identify, and the arrows indicate that this is clickable. Next, links. We want to start with a recognizable icon and a short title. This is especially helpful if you plan on making your sidebar collapsible, like this. And it's also helpful if you want to add a notification number or a new chip to it. Navigation is all about reducing cognitive load. To do that, we'll want to group our links by what's relevant. And then since settings and help center are rarely used, we can send them down to the bottom. As the amount of links expands, you'll want to start nesting links into drop downs. And make sure to have an active state. We're using this rectangle as an indicator. This is optional, but if you want to highlight features, search or integrations, this would be a good place to put them in. Finally, also optional, but with all this empty space, we could add in some notifications. Companies like Dub and Linear have already started doing this sort of thing. And just like that, you've built an aesthetic, but also functional sidebar super easily. If it wasn't clear already, we're building a link tracking software for this demo. So, let's get into it. Sidebars are relatively hard to screw up. The same cannot be said about dashboards. This dashboard feels like someone emptied a drawer onto the screen. If your dashboard looks like it requires a PhD to operate, then it's too complex. Just do one thing well with your dashboard. First, I want to point out a few important considerations. If you compare a dashboard to a landing page, you'll see the features of a dashboard are much smaller because we're trying to shove in many more things. These are the textiles for the landing page, and these are the textiles for the dashboard. We've got a lot of smaller font sizes without much spacing in between sizes. Grids and layouts are also much more strictly followed for dashboards than landing pages because we're using most or all of the space on screen. Third and final, what you put in this main section of the dashboard reflects what is most important to the user. For example, if you're building a project management dashboard, displaying the project status would be very useful. Or if you're building a financial dashboard, you should show investments right at the top. Taking all of that into consideration, we'll be using a very simple two column, two row grid with link management at the top and a few important metrics down below. The very top of the dashboard is generally reserved for important page actions or simple navigation. For our relatively simple dashboard, we'll have a drop down and a button to make a link, which seems pretty important. For any data displayed on the homepage, you'll want to keep it super simple. So, we'll just have the favicon, the shorten link, the actual link, and when it was made. We'll also add how many clicks each link has gotten. Since we still want to have a good amount of space in the middle, we can add a brief description, kind of similar to GitHub. If we wanted visual separation, we can make each link have its own border. But for less clutter, we'll stack them into a list. This layout also makes it easier to add an empty state when there are no links to display, which is important to be thinking about. Now, this static list is looking great, but in real world applications, we need to manage data efficiently. This is where a small micro interaction comes in. Letting the user select multiple links which reveals a new contextual button, bulk actions. Moving on to the charts below. Let's do it properly. First, don't make weird like this. I don't know what these are, and neither does anyone else. Instead, let's start with a basic line graph. Add some grid lines and numbers since everyone forgets those. Pop in a quick summary and date selector, and we're good to go. For the other one, we'll have a bar chart to break down by each link with the favicon on the side to make them easily identifiable. We'll add the same range selector and give the user access to signups and conversion on this chart, too. There's no reason that charts can't be simple and informative, but also aesthetic. But sometimes you need some inspiration first. And one tool I use all the time for this is Mvin, who curates hundreds of thousands of beautifully organized screenshots from real apps. things like project management tools, banking dashboards, and even admin panels. You can search by element like charts or even filter by industry or device type. And it's not just pretty UIs. It helps me see how real teams design flows like how they onboard users or structure complex settings pages. You can check out Mobin using my link in the description to get 20% off. However, most of the functionality of a dashboard isn't actually here in what we've built. We're displaying a lot of information, but we can't do anything yet. That's where modals, popovers, and even new pages come into play. A popover is something like this, and best used when the context is simple, like these display settings, and are nonblocking, meaning the user can click away without any consequences. A modal is best used when the context is more complex, but you still want to keep the user on the same page. This is because creating a link is directly related to the links that are displayed on screen. A modal is considered blocking because you need to click create or cancel before dealing with other things. And since you can't see the page when the changes are being made, a toast notification confirming the changes is generally a good practice. Speaking of toasts, they're the notification system of your dashboard. Anytime you want to make the user aware of something without taking over the entire screen or prompt them to take action, you use a toast. We talked about empty states earlier, but toasts are great for a warning or error states, which frequently get missed. Finally, if the context is more permanent or is very large, like clicking on an existing link, it's reasonable to direct the user to a new page. If you're going to do that, having a back button or breadcrumb is pretty much required. We've just built the bulk of one page on a dashboard, but laying out other pages are fairly trivial since there are really only four main dashboard components. First, lists and tables. These are the most common, and we've used several of them already, from our link table to link details or even the sidebar. Making a good list mostly comes down to separation with three ways to do it. The first is just space. The second is lines or dividers. And the third is with color. But making a good table is more about functionality where displaying the data is only half the battle. Giving the user the options to search, filter, or sort the table transforms it into an interactive tool. Next is cards. This includes our charts and toast notifications. Most dashboards are comprised of many cards together. Keep the margins well spaced so content isn't too tightly packed. Also, you can choose between a border or background colors. I prefer outlines on dark modes and background colors on light mode, but that's totally up to you. User input is another common one. We've used these making our link modal and any sort of settings pages has them. Or if you're lucky, you'll get tables with forms inside of cards like here on Versel. Fourth and final are tabs. These are fantastic for essentially adding new pages without cluttering the sidebar. For example, in notion, we get different views of very related tables without leaving the context of the page. Breaking Notion settings down a little more, we've got mostly lists with some user inputs and some cards once we get to connections, all inside of a modal. So once you master these four elements, you can build virtually any dashboard page. Finally, animation and interaction on dashboards is pretty tame and user focused when compared to some websites and landing pages. Starting with our chart animations, here is where we can get a little more creative. For example, on this chart, when we hover, we get the number as well as a bubble with a percent in it. Or on our other chart, when we hover, all of the other bars dim out. But what everyone wants is a snappy, fast dashboard. That's where optimistic UI comes into play. For example, on Gmail, when I delete an email, it disappears instantly, assuming that the server request will succeed. The app is optimistic that it will succeed so you don't get these awkward pauses before your link disappears. And with that, you have the majority of a functional aesthetic dashboard, which is more than most designers can say. If you're interested in checking out Mobin, it'll be the first link down below. And I also have the design files listed down there, too. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you in the next one. [Music]

If I showed you this site, you'd probably say it's pretty well-designed. It's got a clean layout, good animations, and decent visuals. By most people's standards, this is a good website. But while it says who it's for, it doesn't really match the vibrancy and life that these sites have. So instead of trying to make this look more modern or fancy, what we're going to do is dive deeper into the process behind creating sites that stand out among the bazillion and one softwares that are already out there and in the process break down my entire design workflow from start to finish. So why does this site feel a little soulless? After all, there are plenty of modern and minimal software websites that have a little more life to them that all have something in common. So, let's first start by taking a closer look at the site, which was submitted by one of our fellow viewers, Koa. So, thank you, KA. We actually have really quite a clean, compact restaurant management software. It wastes no time introducing us to the product and talking about the features. But the thread that I want to pull on is that the site tells you directly that it's for restaurant owners and then goes on to design like it's never even heard of a restaurant. We're just describing how to set things up. And you'll notice throughout the entire website, there are no images anywhere, which is a telltale sign that this was vibe coded and leads to a robotic feeling website. But you hop into something like actual, and they're immediately relating to freelancers and agencies with laptops and keyboards. And more importantly, they have a single very actionable heading that promises exactly what their software does. So that's the gap that we're trying to close here, relating to the user and building trust in a way that a site like this just simply can't. So if we actually want this to feel like it's built for restaurants, where do we really begin? Since we're talking about the feeling of the site, let's start with the visual identity. To get away from the bright and sterile light modes and the flat and typical dark modes, let's start with a single image that's more moody, kind of like this. We crop it down, darken it, layer on some noise, and add in our brand name. Maybe you can start to see this come to life a little. Let's grab a few more images with that similar moody kind of vibe. From that, we can pretty easily start pulling out some of those earthy tones from the images themselves to build a bit of a simple color palette. I also want to make sure we have a few accent colors to play with. So, I'm going to grab those from this site called Anchor. With these darker colors, I want to get a bit of texture in here. So perhaps a counter with some pots and pans and measuring spoons or to keep a little more on the software theme, a tablet like this. Next, for fonts, I like the sand serif we have on the current site, but this monospace font is not working very well. So instead, I want to mix in a serif font to add a little more personality to the website, kind of like a printed menu. Using our accents, I'm going to add in a few icons, which will come to represent the main features of the product. And finally, we can finish it off with a few more images and our logo mark in the top right. And I think one of the most important things about building out this identity is that none of this came from a formula. It's all about what conveys that feeling and really makes sense for the brand. So, we've nailed the feeling, but how do we take this and translate it into a well-built website? Well, to create something that resonates a little more, we get to do something called Frankensteining a site to work out our message and site flow. For example, I like the hero of actual, but we're going to go with restaurant items scattered around to indicate who might use the software. Below that, we're going to have a quick ribbon of logos rotating similar to better stack. Then below that, we're going to have something similar to superpowered, but I want to be less step-like, and these images should be way bigger. It should overall talk about how the product works and really use those background images to reinforce who would use our product. Now, finally, we can get into some features. I like the full screen colored tabs that Miro has, but I'm thinking we make the image bigger and cut like 90% of this text. The logos we already have are nice, but typically it's good to have a little extra social proof. Something like Atio's testimonials are great, but we'll probably nyx the lines and text up top and have this be less blocky than it is. Finally, for a CTA, something like wise with heavy bold type, but the background will be an image. and we're going to go ahead and left align things. When we add in a footer and zoom out, you kind of see what I mean when I say Frankenstein. Now, we're not interested in really anything other than the wireframe here. So, we can pull that out and then toss the rest. But, if you are vibe coding and want a faster way to prototype wireframes and designs, that's exactly what Reloom, the sponsor of today's video, does. You can plug into their entire component library. A thousand plus components built by real designers dropped directly into your editor. Just add the MCP and sign into your Reloom account. Describe what you need like a hero for a restaurant SAS and it'll search the entire library, pull exactly what it needs, and start building on top of that, saving you time and tokens while also avoiding those generic AI patterns. Everything is also fully editable, fully yours to keep iterating on, and shares the same primitives, so things will look consistent throughout your site, which is tough to do when you're building from scratch. It's a part of any Reloom paid plan, and there's a 7-day free trial. If you want to check it out, it'll be the very first link down below. So, how do we go from a pile of boxes to something like this? Let's first start with the background. From the brand, we can have these main colors to work with or an image. So, let's run with one of these. For the texture, let's add in a little bit of noise, which will also help with contrast for the text. We could play it safe with all sand serif, but let's split these lines just like the original. Then I'll add in a bit of subtext and some rounded buttons at at least twice the distance of the heading and subtext since the large heading already has a good amount of distance between that baseline where the letters sit and the actual bottom. Then layering in the image assets, we want things to feel scattered and random, but it's actually not at all. Notice these larger elements below, smaller elements on top, and always maintaining that margin of safety around the text. Lastly, we'll darken the edges to really draw that attention to the center. And if we take that same process and apply it to the next section, we'd start with images as the background, stronger noise, and some midsize text. And voila, it almost becomes formulaic with the wireframe that we already established. Let's do it again for the features section. So this time I want a cream background with no noise so we can lean into that clean software feel a little more. A graph paper-like texture, some large images that really dominate the page and those icons that we put together from the brand deck. Continuing through the rest of the wireframe and the visual identity we've crafted, we start to see a cohesive and importantly unique landing page. actually start to come together. And the cool thing about this is because we've spent so much time defining our layout and our visual identity, we can very easily swap out different identities into the same layout and get wildly different feelings when you land on the page, which is how you really master building engaging landing pages. Finally, animation is almost always an afterthought. So, what goes into making fluid and engaging interactions that also feel like they're part of the brand? If we take a look at this Amigo AI website, we can see two main themes for their visual identity, which is this pull away as we scroll past the section and these gradient animations between sections. These form the basis of their animation visual identity since they don't just happen once, but are repeated throughout the website. When we're applying motion to any design, we want to think about directing the eye and the focal point. Obviously, when we land on the hero, the focal point is the text. But as we begin to scroll, we have a pretty hard break between the upper and the lower sections. So to fix that, we can slide the elements off the screen and blur our text while sliding the new section over top, which makes the hero feel like it's part of the background. I think you can see the smoothness of these changes compared to the original. And we'll take that and apply the same idea in reverse to our CTA section below. So, the book ends are looking great, but the middle is feeling a little dry. Since each of these four images is quite important, and we want to encourage the user to check them all out, let's have them on a timer rotating automatically. And on Hover, we'll have a slight zoom in on the images themselves. And there we have my full process for a tearown and redesign of this website submitted by fellow viewer Koa from start to finish, including branding and animation. If you are interested in checking out Reeloom, it'll be the very first link down below. And the link to submit your work for a video like this along with all of the Figma assets used in this video will be down there, too. Thank you so much for watching, and I will see you in the next one.

Designing a dashboard isn't that hard, but orchestrating one is. And there's a massive difference between UI that might look good and UI that actually works when you start using it. So, whether you're live coding a new project or creating a piece for your portfolio, we're covering the three tells that immediately give away you've never built one before and exactly how to fix each and every one. >> [music] >> The one thing that all dashboards have in common is they're built to display data. So, if we focus on building the UI around the data we need to display, we end up with a much more usable experience. For example, take a look at this table. It seems relatively logically laid out, but clearly nothing is driving the form. But, for example, if we turned the department and employment into chips or took these numbers and right align them, things start to shape up. We do this because there's only a set number of departments or employment statuses, and we right align the numbers so the digits align by place value. Then, we can augment this further by truncating long text to give more breathing room to the other columns or even shade out rows of the table that are inactive or deactivated. And when we compare the before and after, we can clearly see which is more visually appealing to look at and importantly, which is letting the data drive the form. And the same is true for data that probably shouldn't even be in a table in the first place. This table definitely works. Don't get me wrong, we could use it, but the time delineated nature means that this isn't the best format and we aren't letting the data determine the shape of the UI. Instead, if we were to arrange this as a timeline, it starts to become a lot easier to follow rather than a time sorted table. This form factor could then be tucked into a sidebar pop out or made wider as a second column beside the table, but either way, now we're letting the data drive the UI. And color is a very important consideration when we do start designing these tables. [music] Landing pages, you can get away with a lot, but dashboard colors shouldn't just be sprinkled in to look nice. It should come from the data itself. In these activity logs, the red icon in the chip draws your eye to it because the action is urgent. The avatar is there because your eye can associate who did what way faster than reading a name in the column. And once you're thinking that way, it's a pretty simple jump to adding a chart to roll up the data into a summary. Because this data has a time dimension, and our chart shows you that instantly instead of making you hunt through a timestamp column, just like our previous example. Often when I talk about hierarchy, I use examples like this, where this card has poor hierarchy, and this card has strong hierarchy. But there's another type of hierarchy based on what you show and what you hide, and it's called progressive disclosure. For example, this share functionality isn't permanently ingrained in the side of the table since it's not that frequently accessed and frankly not important enough. Instead, we tuck it into a popover so we don't have to rip the user to an entirely different page. And within this popover, the primary action is of course the search box, which is why it's immediately visible at the top. A secondary action like removing a user isn't overly important, so instead of ingraining it in the UI, we show the remove button on hover along with a tooltip. We could be more explicit by always having them, or even still more explicit by having the full label present. But since we're tight on space and removing a user from sharing isn't a main action, we progressively reveal it as soon as the user starts to look for that functionality. And what I've just described is called the spectrum of explicitness, where a global, always visible share button is quite high, whereas an icon to copy a cell on hover is much lower on that same spectrum. And Apple does the same thing really well in their Reminders app. On swipe left and right, it reveals useful but secondary actions compared to actually checking off the reminder. And if you think about it, this is exactly what an onboarding is. When a user lands on your app for the first time, they shouldn't be staring at a fully loaded dashboard wondering where to start. A good onboarding might start with a single tooltip pointing at the most important action. Once they've done that, maybe a second one appears or a simple checklist in the corner. You're not hiding functionality, you're sequencing it so that the user is never overwhelmed. Compare that to explaining the entire product in a modal with six bullet points the second you log in and then instantly forgetting the moment you dismiss. And the best way to get a feel for how to handle this, the progressive disclosure, the spectrum of explicitness, and the onboarding flows, is to look at a lot of real software. Which is exactly what today's sponsor Mavin makes dead simple. They've curated hundreds of thousands of screens from real mobile and web apps. So, instead of piecing together an onboarding flow, you can search through hundreds of them. They also just launched an MCP. So, you can pull Mavin's full library directly into your AI development. I had it throw together a mood board for a banking app with real screenshots and actual links in about 2 minutes. If you're interested in checking it out, the very first link down below will get you 20% off. A really important concept that AI has a hard time wrapping its figurative head around is that UI is as much about what you can see as what you can't see. Like for as much as this table works well and looks good, additional functionality in such a dense design needs to come from parts of the UI that you can't immediately see. This could be as simple as a copy chip over the cells or perhaps comment functionality with a small triangle indicator. Here's all the UI that you can see and then this is all of the UI that you can't immediately see but is still there. And it's not a small amount. We need it all to actually make any of this table function. Putting the individual pieces together, the spacing, the sizing isn't that hard but orchestrating them does require some thought. And this applies just as much to the smaller items as it does to the larger drawers, models, and elements that have hidden components and states. It makes it easier to see that new features or elements often don't require a dedicated page just to be better thought through how they're implemented. But, this isn't just true for dense UI like tables. Think about moments in software that you almost never see. An announcement about a newly launched feature or an onboarding pop-up explaining how part of the product works. But, what's missing pretty much unequivocally on all beginner dashboards are tooltips. We have to assume that the user won't understand all of our icons or that they might want more details or information on ambiguous labels. It goes to show that there's so much UI that's hiding that's important for a finished product. And with that, those are the three subtle flaws that'll give away that you've never built a dashboard before. The data driving the form, the right things hidden until they're needed, and all the invisible UI that makes the whole thing actually function. If you want to check out Mavin, it'll be the very first link down below. You can get the link to all of the Figma assets used in this video down there, too. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next one.

This is the first design I ever made, and it's awful. Eight years later, here's exactly how I'd learned design if I had to start over. Broken down into a 28-day plan that I would actually give myself. Before we get to designing, we need to start by training our design eye, which might sound stupid, but take a look at this. Now, these designs might look totally different to you at first glance, but every single one of them has the same skeleton. They all break down into the same four zones and the same flow. And once you understand it, you're going to start seeing it everywhere. Those main sections consist of the main text block, the navbar, the stats below, and the image itself. So, let's start with the main text block. Notice how it doesn't dominate the page, and the spacing around it is very intentional. The subtext is only 8 pixels away, while the eyebrow text above is 12 pixels, and the buttons are 32 pixels away. That creates a grouping where we associate the heading and subtext most closely, then the eyebrow, and finally the buttons below that. And notice the text itself. It's only seven words in the header and 14 below to communicate the message as quick as possible. Next up, the navbar has become a member as its most prominent feature, but otherwise it's pretty small and stays out of your way just like most modern navs. Coming on over to the image. Having a highquality asset is what makes or breaks most landing pages. You'll notice that the focal point of the image is never obstructed since everything sits above, below, or to the left of it, leaving the center and right wide open for some imagery. Also notice that the background of the image isn't too busy. If we swap it out for an image like this, things get a little more chaotic and the text is harder to read. And then with this, the text is basically gone on the left. Finally, the stats down below are a great example of using color, not just size, to create some hierarchy. These two font sizes are the same 15 pixels, but the second line, of course, doesn't jump out as much because it only has 55% opacity, blending it into the background a little bit more. >> [music] >> The point of this entire exercise was before you ever even get into Figma, it's important to take a look at all of these tiny design details that often get glossed over. For yourself, pick any site you like and pull it apart the same way, and you'll start to see the decisions behind the design. And with each of these, the pattern recognition of things like proximity, contrast, consistency, and hierarchy start to become a whole lot easier to see. Now comes time to actually start building. This is where everyone starts. At least that's what I tell myself. But hopefully this should speed things up. The most common advice is to take an app or a website you like and redesign it. And personally, I think that's pretty bad advice. We instead want to learn how to create good design. And all the best creation comes from stealing. So pick a design you like and don't redesign it. Literally copy it. This is essentially the same exercise that we did with that superpower website, but now you're forced to notice all the little details. How far apart are the cards? How tall is the nav? And what's the padding on these buttons? Once you do this on a few websites, you should start to see some patterns emerging that there are only a handful of options at any point when it comes to layout. If we start with the hero section, we might start with an image and text pair. Text on the left, image on the right, or image full screen underneath the text. More modern designs sometimes have the text up top and the image below, too. We can even in rare occurrences put the text below the image as well. So with the text up top, image down below. Then we can focus on the text. This can be centered most commonly. We could left align or we can kick the body and CTA out to the right. Then we focus on the visual. Well, what do we want? We could have the image where the borders are defined. We can go full width with an image that bleeds into the background. Or we can have a carousel of images. Maybe it even slowly rotates through them. But all of these layout decisions come down to one thing, and that is what is the content trying to do. For example, if you're trying to have a profound statement, you'd center the text, bump up the font size, and you give it a lot of space to breathe. But if you're trying to display a features list, the text is really just there to support the visuals. But if there are many features that run off the screen, you would want them all to be seen by the user. So, you'd swap this out for a bento grid so nothing is lost as the user scrolls down. And to start identifying those patterns, having highquality curated visuals at your fingertips is super useful, which is exactly what Mobin, the sponsor of today's video, does. You can browse hundreds of thousands of screenshots from websites and apps you might not even know exist and easily export them out to Figma. And I use this exact flow when I work with clients or create these videos. For example, if you get stuck on a section like features, just search for it and browse through over 3,000 examples to see how designers from top companies are approaching the same problems. If you are interested in checking out Mobin, you can use the very first link down below to get yourself 20% off. Now, let's get back to the video. Now that we have the design down, we need to start thinking like a designer. And to do so, we need to untangle the two very distinct parts of design, UI and UX. UI is all about adding the flavor to a website. How the same layout can have a dramatically different look and feel. And then there's UX. This is more about the thought process of design. For example, how you would structure something like this onboarding process. Let's start with UI. If we were trying to make this feel very friendly and welcoming, we might add a nice warm background, some very colorful visuals, round out all the corners, and make the buttons large and bubbly. But if you wanted to make the same site more modern and professional, the corners would be much less rounded. The imagery would change substantially to something with less color and a more premium feel. And maybe we'd add in some noise to the background. The product is technically the same. The layout is basically identical, but we've transformed how the website feels at the same time. This is exactly what I mean when I say flavor. Being able to take a few words and turn it into a feeling when you land on a website is a very special skill to have. And then on the other side of the spectrum, we have UX, which you might also refer to sometimes as product design. And onboarding might seem like a fairly simple set of steps. So, let's walk through one and actually see. You'll probably start with asking them for their name and email address. Many people end up on this page unintentionally, so we'll have an escape hatch to the login page. Now, you'll probably want to verify the user's email by sending them a link or a code. As the product designer, you can either block them from finishing the process until they've input the code, or you can give them a gentle reminder and allow them to continue. And neither of those decisions is wrong. Next, we might invite the user to create their workspace and at the bottom ask them what their team size is. This is important because it's going to shape how the next steps of our onboarding function. From there, we split into two flows. one where the user has identified as being part of a team and the other where the user is identified as an individual. For the team, the next step could be to invite team members whereas the individual would completely bypass this step altogether. Hopefully, this illustrates that there's a lot of design thinking behind just the five screens we went through. And each of these decisions wasn't about the spacing or the typography. It was rather about the user's journey. So with all that in mind, just before we get to the road map, the biggest mistake that you could make as someone learning design right now would be to go and start your portfolio right now. It's exciting to think about, of course, but this is my portfolio from about 3 years ago. Very in-your-face. Huge animations, giant text, everything had to move. Compare that to what I have now, which is a little more refined with some smaller, more tasteful animations. Neither is wrong, but the point is the huge difference between the two. Just imagine how your taste will start to change over the next one to two months as you start learning. So considering that, here is a rough road map if you're just getting into UIUX and product design. It's 28 days broken into four main stretches. Week one is all about training your eye. Start by building yourself a swipe file, 20 or so hero sections and feature sections that really inspire you, pulled from Mobin, Dribble, Pinterest, or wherever. Once you've got that, pick a couple and actually annotate them the way we did with superpower, spacing, hierarchy, and what's grouped with what. Then comes actually building the skill. This is where you pick one design you genuinely love from the swipe file and clone the hero section exactly. After that, do the feature section from that same site and then grab a second site with totally different layout and go ahead and clone that too. And then finally, it's time to think like a designer. First, on the UI side, take one of the layouts you've already built and restyle it twice. Once warm and friendly, kind of like how we did it, and once modern and premium. That's how you develop different flavors of website. Then we'll switch to the UX side. Take that onboarding concept that we broke down earlier and design the two screens where the user journey splits. The first screen will be the invite your team page for the manager and then the second screen will be the setup page for the solo user. And that's it. After 28 days, you should be well on your way to learning design. And don't worry about your portfolio yet. Just focus on creating the skill. And with that, you should have a very solid plan for how to learn UIU, UUX, and product design in 2026. If you are interested in checking out Mobin, it'll be the very first link down below. And the link to all of the Figma assets used in this video will be down there, too. Thank you so much for watching, and I will see you in the next one.

When it comes to UI, mobile is just so different from desktop that it results in some pretty questionable designs. So, in this video, I'm going to show you how to design your very first mobile UI completely from scratch in a way that's dynamic, purposeful, and effortless to use. And by the end, you won't just have a stunning mobile design. You'll understand why the best apps are designed the way they are. The first difference of desktop to mobile is obviously the navigation. Where we had an expansive sidebar, we now definitely do not. So, we have two options. If we can consolidate our sidebar links down to just a few key icons, we can go with a nice bottom bar, which nowadays is typically floating with the important action broken out just like this. Five links down here is pretty much the definite limit, and three or four is much more ideal. But either way, this means that we'll always maintain over a 44 pixel target since people do have fat fingers. It's important to note too that depending on the context you're in, these actions can and do change, which we'll touch on when we start building out a few pages. That typically is the standard. However, sometimes you just have too many important things in the sidebar to really fit things in here. In which case, another valid form of navigation is to take the sidebar and turn that into a whole page that sort of becomes the homepage. In this case, we'll add in some recent notes to the top and actions and counts to the right side so it doesn't feel so lopsided. It also conveniently clears up the bottom for a nice big search bar or action button, which is what apps like Notion do. Moving up to the top, a bell and more menu is a good place to start, but these actions are also highly contextual based on the page. Now, when it comes time to actually start building, squishing things down and trying to fit as much on the screen as possible is pretty natural. This all looks fairly normal, actually, until I zoom out and show you the other normalsized apps for comparison. Despite our screen getting much, much smaller, the type scale and spacing remains relatively similar to desktop, even getting a bit larger. iOS actually has a base font size of 17 pixels, while Mac OS has a base of only 13 pixels. So, more often than not, things actually get larger on these smaller screens. And it's a tough realization that on desktop, where you could have had an action bar, a gallery of recent notes, a full calendar, tasks, and a scratch pad, now you can pick one of those things. And because we have to pick just one, the way we start to lay out content starts to change a little. Dashboards and desktop designs can lay out content in two directions at the same time. What that means is this layout has two columns and three rows, obviously extending in both directions. However, on mobile, you can choose one direction to move in per section. Either you can stack each note vertically or you can make it horizontal off the page. But of course, you can't have both like you reasonably could on desktop. This is a useful guideline when taking content from dashboards and making it mobile optimized. And if you understand that concept, things really start to become a piece of cake. In addition, ignoring our floating menus and actions, there's really only four types of building blocks for an app. The biggest and most important are cards. Basically, everything on here is a card in some way or another because it allows us to flexibly group content in place of whitespace, which we don't typically have a lot of here. The others are text or links, of course, images, and inputs. And of course, any of those can be put into cards as well. One important note about cards is to try and avoid double nesting them, kind of like this. It's not always avoidable, but it creates padding on padding, which really restricts the space you have and ends up cramping things. Often you can group with whites space instead of a container and somewhat alleviate this problem. Because we are so space constrained on mobile apps, I'd like to introduce the important idea that one screen does one thing and that's it. Obviously, the very notable exception is our home screen, but otherwise, the settings is just settings, and the notes editor is just a notes editor. We don't throw in clutter like recent notes or suggested templates at the top. Instead, whenever you need to add something new, don't reach for a different layout. Reach for a different page altogether. Though, this example about templates brings up an interesting point about context. We're editing a note, so we don't want to be ripped away to a new page to select a template, but we don't have enough room on screen. This is where bottom sheets become super useful. This is a bottom sheet. You've probably seen it a bunch. And now we can simply add in a title, search bar, and a check and X and all of our templates, too. These can be any height, but they keep the user in context and are easy to navigate with gestures, which we'll talk about in just a second. Another good example is the typical use of this plus button, which either opens a little menu or opens the keyboard with an input to just immediately start typing. But before we get to gestures, sometimes when you're designing, you need some inspiration. So, a tool I use all the time and actually use to make this video is Mobin, the sponsor of today's video. Mobin curates hundreds of thousands of videos, images, and user flows, all from top apps like Notion, Craft, Headspace, and many more. It often helps me to see how top teams design flows like onboardings or to check out specific UI elements just like bottom sheets. You can filter by categories, screens, UI elements, and user flows. so you can always find what's relevant to you. If you're interested, you can check out Mobin using my link in description to get 20% off. Now, back to the video. Now, gestures is where mobile apps start to get really interesting. One of the most common is swiping right to go back like this. But if we move the background left by about 35% and then also animate it right, we get a super smooth transition. Same idea with our bottom sheets. As the bottom sheet comes up, we often zoom out the background and zoom back in on swipe down. Swipes are everywhere in modern mobile apps. So, as long as you educate the user on how to use them, they can be relied on pretty heavily. A good example is a handy swipe up to search, which is used by Slack as well as sort of by Apple, too. And I'd be remiss if I didn't mention the long press, the mobile equivalent of the right click. It's typical to blur the rest of the screen and just show the actions in addition to some slight zoom on the element itself. Or we can take it even a step further and turn this into a more dynamic preview like how iOS does it. Now also because of our limited space actions need to come and go as needed. It can't always be persistent. For example, clicking into one of our notes hides our navbar and reveals other actions specific to note editing such as text formatting or sharing up at the top. Or when we go to select templates, all of that is hidden for really just two actions, a confirmation button and an X. And of course, how these actions animate in and out is half the fun, too. Finally, what we've designed here is an ideal state. The app is filled with content, but don't forget what the user sees the first time they log in when there is no content. We could have cards inviting user to start adding in events, tasks, and notes. But instead, let's draw attention to the plus button, which is our main action, and add in a full screen empty state to simplify things. Then we have a simple popover instructing them on how things actually work. But there is also another type of empty state which is when we search for a note for example and get no results. Instead of just an instruction, we should have some nice imagery and we need to acknowledge that there are no notes matching the existing keywords and then perhaps give them a few suggestions in case of a typo and an action to exit the empty state. There is a ton of different apps and mobile designs you could build, but this should give you the foundation to start creating some really prolevel app designs super easily. If you're interested in checking out Mobin, it'll be the very first link down below, and the link to all of the Figma assets used in this video will be down there, too. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next one.


Colors are hard. If you've ever designed a website, you've probably heard of the 603010 rule. It's simple. It creates balanced interfaces and prevents many designers from rage quitting. But in product design, things change. Take versel. It's like 90% black, 8% white, and 2% red, which sometimes isn't even there. In this video, I'm going to walk you through the four layers of color theory for product design, so by the end, you can create rich, interactive designs without any guesswork. Layer number one is our neutral foundation. So, let's talk backgrounds first. Linear uses 99% white. Notion is 100%. Versella is 98%. There is some variance, but nothing to say you can't use pure white. Now, for a landing page, 3 to five neutrals works great. But for a product design, you'll generally want four layers of backgrounds, at least one stroke, often two, and then about three text variants. This ignores the chart, which we'll talk about in a bit, and that's not even counting any hover states or interactivity. So, how do we choose all these colors? Let's start with the frame of your web app. This is a slightly darker anchor. For example, Mercury adds 2% blue to their sidebar. Because it's a pretty large element, it only needs to be very slightly darker, especially on light mode. As we add content to the dashboard, it's important to know that light mode is very flexible because we can have a dark background with lighter cards like Verscell or a light background with darker cards like Notion or monochromatic layers like Superbase. Darker cards are often the same color as your sidebar. And lighter cards can be pure white, which is a good reason not to have pure white as your background. Now, if I have cards on this background, it looks very washed out. It's only slightly better if I add a subtle drop shadow. You might reach for a thin black border. Don't. Instead, use roughly 85% white to define the edge, but not overpower it. Another great rule is the more important a button is, the darker it is. That goes for ghost buttons all the way to black buttons with white text. and everything else within that range. Though most multi-purpose buttons sit around 90 to 95% white. Finally, text. The darkest colors are reserved for important headings, but even those are still about 11% white. The majority of your text should fall around 15 to 20% white and subtext around 30 to 40%. Now, layer 2 is about adding a functional accent. Some products stay neutral like Versel, but if you think of linear, you think blue purple or superbase as bright green. Now, first, don't think of your color as a single color. Rather, think of it as a scale from the lightest version of it to the darkest. You'll really only use the 500 or 600 as your main color, but a hover would step up to a 700, and a link might be 400 or 500. To generate a palette like this, I used UI colors to get a ramp, which will also help when we switch to dark mode in a second. But if you want a deeper understanding of UI and colors that we can't get to in just one YouTube video, you should check out today's sponsor, Zero to Mastery, they have a fantastic UIUX design career path, which guides you through seven courses and 139 hours of instruction to deepen your understanding and land jobs. Also, with a Discord community of over half a million students, you'll be joining a thriving group of learners. These courses include in-depth video instruction, helping you build real world practical designs, and you'll even earn a certificate of completion once you finish a course to showcase on your resume or portfolio. They also currently have a free UIX cheat sheet that I will link to down below. But if you're interested, the link and promo code will be down below to get you 10% off. Now, when you turn down the lights for dark mode, the rules change. The first is that dark colors look more similar, so they require more distance to look as different as lighter colors. That's a bit of a mouthful, but if you just reflect your light palette, the background elements will lose all of their distinction. So, a good rule of thumb is double the distance. Most of our light colors have distances of about 2% white between them. So, on dark mode, we'll want four to 6% between those colors. Stretching out our color palette with that rule results in actually a pretty reasonable design. Now for the main color, once again, we can break out the color ramp to choose a 300 or 400 as our primary brand color on dark mode with hover being a 400 or 500. You'll also need to dim the text and brighten any borders. And if you stare at this screen all day, you'll definitely start to notice the difference. Now, where light mode was more flexible, dark mode is not. Surfaces always get lighter as they elevate. So any raised cards need to have a lighter color or just a border like the search bar. And just like that, we've created an enterprisegrade light and dark mode. But now, let me show you how to handle charts, chips, notifications, and all the other wildly colored components. Our third layer is all about semantic communication. Colors convey meaning, and because of that, we have to break the system that we've built. Versel understands this. So, even with a brand color of black and white, you can tell which builds are successful, failed, or in progress. Even if your brand color is purple, it's pretty much a design sin to make destructive actions anything other than red. So, you'll always need some semantic colors. When it comes to charts, a neutral color chart is super lame. And if we just use our brand color ramp, things look a bit too similar. So, we need a full spectrum. But ever notice how bright green seems so much more neon than bright blue? There's a whole bunch of very interesting science behind that which I won't get into today. But we need some way to get the same tone of color across the entire spectrum. And the solution is the OKLCH palette, which depends on human perception of color. Meaning, we can get the same perceived brightness across different colors. To do this, I go to oklcch.com and set the lightness and chroma. Then you can pretty simply increment the hue by about 25 to 30 and grab that color for the chart. Last but not least, layer four, theming. If you want to convert any of your designs into a color themed version, it's actually a lot easier than you think. You could take all of your neutrals and guess, but this is where the okay LCH color system becomes super useful. For every neutral you have, plug in the hex value and drop the lightness by 003 and increase the chroma by 0.02. And then just adjust the hue to get any themed output. This means you can theme any design to red, green, blue. bang on the money every single time. And this trick also works super well, maybe even better for dark mode. And those four levels are everything you'll need to take your design game to the next level for more complex designs and applications. If you'd like to check out Zero to Mastery, it'll be the first link down below. And if you want to download the Figma file with all the colors and variables in it, it'll be down there, too. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next one.

Playful websites are slowly being replaced with corporate AI mush like this. Somewhere along the way, modern became a synonym for sterile, like Mailchimp pre2020 and Mailchimp now. Nothing is wrong with it. It just doesn't have the fun, the curiosity that well-designed websites do. So, here's how to take a frankly uninspiring design like this and turn it into something delightful for the user. For example, take a look at this invoicing website. There are a lot of things on the screen. However, if we remove them, it doesn't make the website clearer. It just makes it feel empty. And there's a lot of helpful context in those elements, like the money, the invoice, and the crypto. Without even reading anything, we start to get a pretty good idea of what the product is for. Or this fun crypto website. Very similar layout and idea. The core message is clearly laid out in the center, and everything else like the coins, Ethereum, and fun character are there to give context to what the landing page is about. And we can apply those same principles to our own landing page. First, let's trash this image. And then we can center our text and change a few of our other styles. Then, let's add in a few images and grab a few doodled illustrations of them. Throw in a few twinkles, as I'm calling them, and then a couple tasteful scribbles. But not overdoing it is important. For example, we do have some empty space up here. So, if I was to grab another illustration, we could pop it in here. But that pushes our design over the line, too cluttered. Notice that with all designs, they maintain good spacing around the text so that the elements are context, not clutter. Since we're breaking the box and not arranging elements in line with the grid, we need to be very selective in how we arrange them. There's a lot of eyeballing it, but generally you want the elements to draw the user's attention to the center. That's why in this crypto site, you'll notice that the elements trail off the further you get from the center. For example, on our design, if I was to tilt these like so, it's not objectively wrong. something just looks off. But nailing the vibe of a website is very important, too. The crypto website is by far the most playful with blobs and fun colors, whereas this invoicing website is more on the side of professional with more realistic imagery. We probably land somewhere in the middle with our doodles. To give you another example, Gumroad has a neo brutalist vibe that probably falls pretty close to our own design for playfulness. But honestly, finding examples like this used to take forever, but recently a tool I've been using a lot is Mob and Sites, the sponsor of this video, which curates thousands of the best websites and landing pages online. So, if we're looking for playful sites, we can filter by colorful and fun and immediately find gems like this to see how real design teams approach the same problems that you and I are. You can see the full preview, all of the sections, and even the live site. If you're interested, you can check out Mobin using the first link down below to get 20% off. But just because things don't have to move, doesn't mean they shouldn't. For example, paste app doesn't need to have all these scroll animations. This could be presented statically and get the point across. Or Daniel's portfolio. It's pretty subtle, but right at the bottom, you can see these images rotating in. On a side note, these animations with the graffiti and realistic pins really make this a very diverse and engaging portfolio to scroll through. Anyways, moving on to our own example, our doodled elements like this could have no entrance or a really robotic fade in, but that's no fun. For example, with this small star, what if we had it rotate and pop into view? And for the hot air balloon, instead, let's have it literally fly in from off the screen and very slowly bob up and down once it's in place. Finally, our calendar will move and rotate in as well. Here's what it looks like before. And here's after. We can even apply some easing, which we talked about in a previous video on mobile swipe effects to create even more natural motion. And because we have these elements in our large and fairly spacious margins, we can leverage a bit of parallax on scroll to get a much more lifelike feeling website without needing to layer in crazy backgrounds like this. And this is exactly how Delases makes their website feel 3D along with some fantastic mouse interactions. But because text is like 80% of most websites, it's neither fun or interesting. Adding on to our last point about motion, Apple does a magnificent job of incorporating motion into their Mac Mini landing page, and it is magical. Let me show you again. [Music] A slightly simpler but very interesting storytelling website is Reboot where they explain their product with text animations and micro interactions. So on line one of our own design, I'll start with a simple fade in slide down for track, but we'll make deadlines into an actual progress bar that fills up then rises up and out with the word deadline replacing it. Then on line two, we'll start the same way, but paid will be replaced with dollar signs that bounce and then slide down and paid will actually drop down. Finally, I'll add in a little checkbox out at the end. Altogether, it looks something like this. And while these effects were pretty simple, combined with the motion we set up above, the website really starts to come to life. The goal isn't to be as complex as possible, but to draw attention to the text because it's moving. For example, Logan's portfolio, which is entirely text except for this one blur effect, which reveals some fun message bubbles. Or take Chester's website. It's refreshingly simple, but with a variety of small hover interactions of pretty much everything means that simplicity isn't bland. But while I'm no copywriter, it's not just about motion. It's also about having friendly text. Like hear how they say they sweat the details instead of something like we take pride in our attention to detail. or look at Base Camp's entire website. It's built around natural, easy to understand language instead of corporate jargon. Finally, we have some finishing touches since design is often more about the things you don't see than the details that you do. For example, 404 pages. These are the ultimate time to be quirky and fun because the user literally doesn't belong there. Mobin's 404 page is an interface guessing quiz, while Pixar's is a character from one of their movies. And this pizza website automatically redirects you once the snake eats all the pizza from the tree. This is our simple 404 page for our website, tying in with the personal text from the previous example and some smooth animations, too. And that is how we take a boring corporate AI generated design and turn it into a playful bespoke masterpiece. If you do want to check out Mobin, my link below will get you 20% off. And the link to grab all of the assets we use in this video will be down below, too. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next one. [Music]

The best UX an app can have is feeling like it belongs on your computer. So, in this video, I'll show you exactly how to design one entirely from scratch. From the layout to composition to those subtle Mac OS interactions that really make it pop. And by the end, you won't have just another website. You'll have a desktop app that looks and feels like Apple built it. And the one I built for this video, you can download it for free at the end. Now, to design like Apple, we first need to get comfortable in the UI and interaction that lives outside of the main window. For example, popovers, new windows, notifications, and so much more. Even third party apps like Notion have pop-ups as soon as it detects a meeting, or apps like Paste, which seamlessly integrate at the bottom of the screen, just like the native top bar window view. To feel native, the app shouldn't be a destination, but a system exactly where you need it. Because of this, thinking about how the user will actually interact with a final product is super important. Spotlight search isn't very accessible with anything other than command space and is dragable to anywhere you need it. Our integration will follow a design pattern very similar to that and raycast to appear when you need it and then immediately get out of the way. Our app will focus around saving design inspiration. And one of the biggest issues I find is you're doing other things when you find good inspiration. you're editing in Figma, then hopping over to code and then jumping into notion. So, a keyboard shortcut like commandshifts to open a window would be great. Just like widgets that slide in quietly from the side or the edit panel, our window should stay out of the way and as minimal as possible. So, we can go ahead and toss the traffic lights and just add the basics of a drop area, a simple input, and some buttons. Finally, I'll add in some keyboard shortcut reminders to those. And kind of like how paste has a native blur, we'll add that in, too. And I just can't help myself. When we press enter, I got to have this collapse into a nice toast notification and then slide off the screen. Just like how this note-taking tool does something pretty similar to design a workflow that really works for you. These are also all good examples of optimistic UI since we're processing and saving the image in the background, but we just assume that it will succeed, which is why we're optimistic. Apple Mail and many other applications follow this pattern, moving the email to trash before it's actually deleted off the server. Now, moving on to the main window. Here's something that's crucial. The Notes app and the iPhone landing page might have similar UI components, but they're used completely differently. A landing page is all pre-generated content that doesn't really change. And an app is meant to hold the user's information that is added and manipulated. This means that apps are much more userfocused and is why almost all of Apple's utility apps, finder, notes, reminders, calendar, or even settings all have a similar layout with the top for global level actions, the sidebar for navigation, and the main content in the center. They're also wonderfully simple and good at doing one thing, so the UI can stay hyperfocused. You'll also notice that they all seamlessly integrate the traffic light actions into the UI, either in the top bar or the sidebar, treating them just like any other element. It's also important to note that the top roughly 50 pixels of their apps allow window dragging, which is a good reason not to clutter the top with actions and let it breathe more. We're going to follow the same pattern, but since our navigation is super straightforward, really just browsing and searching, we can skip the sidebar entirely. That gives us extra room for large images since our UI is really just a container for the user's content. Doing this allows us to stay out of the way as much as possible. Now, speaking of staying out of the way, just like when you get a clear empty state when you have no notes, we'll have a simple empty state inviting the user to start saving inspiration. This is a form of progressive disclosure, only showing the user what they need to see in that moment. All of the filters and other components are hidden because they simply aren't useful until the user starts saving inspiration. Another good example of this is when we do have images only showing all of the data when the user actually clicks on the image. So before adding colors or effects, ask yourself this. What is the minimum UI needed to really let that content shine? Now at some point throughout designing this Mac app, I actually had to build it, which is why Matter by Jet Brains has kindly agreed to sponsor today's video. Matter is an AI development companion that I used to prototype the UI for our actual app. So when I was designing the dashboard layout once it was mocked up in Figma instead of spending forever trying to code that sucker and just added in my Figma link described the functionality to matter and it built the whole preview in a live sharable format. Now matter is built for web applications but the cool thing is the front-end code it generates works perfectly in the framework I used to turn it into a native Mac app. So I was able to prototype the entire UI in Matter, make a poll request and keep building from there. If you're interested in checking it out, you can sign up to the early access weight list with the first link down below. But it's because of the simplicity in our app that we actually have a lot of flexibility with colors. All Macs give the option to switch between light mode and dark mode, and those settings should be respected as much as possible. Directly inverting the colors looks okay. This is because dark mode requires colors that are more different from each other than light mode. Since there's less light and less differentiation when we directly invert to light mode, the contrast is much higher and it doesn't look stellar. If we collapse the colors to be more similar, it looks a lot more refined. Design light and dark mode not as exact opposites. They should feel different but consistent. Now, you'll notice with every native Mac app, music, shortcuts, weather, everything has search, and it's always prominent and accessible. Now, many powerful softwares have a command pallet or a universal search like notion, obsidian or atio, and that was a consideration for this search since it's sleek and an intuitive design. However, most of those menu items take you to an entirely new screen and with the goal of remaining largely a one-sreen application like most of Apple's utilities, I opted for a floating search bar and a slide out preview instead. Using a bit of image recognition, we can search based on what's actually in the image instead of just by titles. We could search for mobile app with houses and a calendar and actually get relevant results. For image-based searching, I opted to put that into our sidebar slideout and show just a few relevant results for each image. Because of that, and since the browsing and search pages look quite similar, we'll add the search results count to the search bar and an X to clear. And then the search query to the top left along with an arrow to go back to browse. Now, Mac OS is obviously filled with a ton of keyboard shortcuts. Command space for Spotlight, Command Tab to switch apps, and command W to close tabs. Just look at this list of shortcuts in reminders. The point is they're important, but arguably just as important is the visual feedback from it. If you don't see a change, you assume that something went wrong. That's why micro animations, or at least a state change, are instrumental. Command shift S slides out our quicksave panel. Escape slides it away, and enter transforms it into our toast notification. And the same is true about our main dashboard. We have our search bar down here at the bottom, but in an effort to stay out of the way until the user needs the tool, we'll collapse it down. and clicking or triggering the shortcut beautifully expands it to full size so that every interaction has immediate feedback. But to make a user experience that truly feels effortless, drag and drop of anything anywhere is a must. Apple's got this down to a science. Whether it's the photos app, finder, of course, reminders, shortcuts, on and on. Getting content into the app is pretty straightforward. We just drop it into the quicksave window and it's done. But getting content out is even better. Just grab whatever you need and drag it into Figma, Finder, or wherever else from anywhere within the app. Now, on almost all apps, you'll often find Apple's universal share button because sometimes that is just more convenient. So, following on to our floating search bar, we'll also have a floating action bar in the preview slide out to copy, find, or delete to keep those easy to access. This is exactly what Apple nails. Actions that feel so natural that you don't even think about them as features. But just because this is a desktop application doesn't mean we should forget about onboarding like all good mobile apps have. This isn't super standard for Apple apps, but something like Raycast has a pretty immaculate onboarding process. Ours will admittedly be simpler with just a modal that pops up with some sweet micro interactions. The way to close it is to execute the shortcut and have the quicksave window pop out. It's important to educate the users on keyboard shortcuts since they're very powerful but also easy to forget, which is why Google has a cheat sheet that is ironically triggered by another keyboard shortcut. Our cheat sheet will be in the settings popover along with the side that the quicksave panel pops out from and the light and dark mode settings. And that is everything you'll need to be able to design your very first Mac OS app UI from scratch. If you're interested in checking out Matter, it'll be the first link down below. And if you want to download the actual app we built in this video, that link will be down there, too. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next one.

The hardest part of UI isn't layout or typography, it's color. Pick the wrong palette and your design can look cheap and confusing. But by the end of this video, you'll be able to pick out a quality color palette and identify the most common color mistakes made by redesigning a file management app from revolting to refined. Less is almost always more with color. Not everything should be a different color like it is here. First, these cards are burning a hole in my eye, and they almost all fail the WCAG contrast checks, meaning we can't reasonably use them. I'm sure you've heard of the 603010 rule, meaning BY is 60% of our dominant neutral color, 30% secondary color, and 10% accent color. Lemon Squeezy is a good and very colorful example of this, with purple being 60%, yellow being the 30%, and white actually being the accent color in this section. Right now, we have at least five different accent colors on these cards, all competing for attention. If we swap the cards for our brand color, we somewhat hit the 603010 rule. But now, we have a different problem. The bright purple dominates the page for an element that really isn't that important and creates obvious accessibility issues. A good fix is to lighten it up so it draws less attention and swap the text to black. Next, let's focus on these icons down here. For the most part, icons need no color. Their job is to be recognizable symbols. Color should be reserved for communicating status, like highlighting this as an active tab. Finally, let's clean up some of the rest of the colors that are used just for the sake of using color. By reducing our palette, we've already created more clarity for the user. You know how we use white space to create hierarchy and let the elements breathe? Well, it's the same idea with color, and it's called neutral balance. Backgrounds are the best place to start because they should remain in the background, and our sandy yellow gradient is not really doing that. Almost never will you want bright colors for your background. There are, of course, notable exceptions to every rule, but generally you want to start with a neutral gray background and a very light or white foreground. This is the same idea for a dark mode where the darker colors are in the background and slightly lighter colors make the foreground, but we can integrate a little more color into this by taking our neutral gray and adding a hint of purple to it. Headspace does this very thing where they take a tint of their bright orange and use it in the background on these cards to add a splash of color without overpowering the visuals. In light mode, you can also get away with reversing the background and foreground. And often this can make sense if you have smaller UI features like dribble search bar for better accessibility. Finally, maintaining neutral balance sometimes means removing the backgrounds altogether. In the case of our cards, we could adjust the colors so we add another layer to our UI, but that's a lot of clutter. Instead, sometimes a simple border is the best solution. A common challenge designers face is working with the brand colors that are provided. For example, with our brand colors, let's assume the brand guidelines look a little bit like this. The problem is we don't really have much else to work with. So in the storage bar we could change the opacity, but it feels a little bland. To spice it up, we can rotate our purple slightly on the color wheel to pick a blue and pinkish color. We can also choose a complimentary color across the color wheel, like a bright yellow. These colors all work well on our UI because they're analogous and complimentary colors. This strategy also works if you have a brand color like this orange that fails WCAG checks with white text. You can darken it up, which passes, or choose a complimentary blue, which also passes. A ton of brands actually follow this very idea. Take Mailchimp for example. They have bright yellow as their primary color, which is then used with a complimentary turquoise secondary, or Airbnb, who has a very bright pink and a much deeper pink to pair with it. The point is, don't be afraid to adapt brand colors in order to accommodate good design. And speaking of adapting, I want to thank today's sponsor, Final Round AI, which helps designers find jobs faster. Job hunting used to look like this for me. 50 tabs open, copy pasting all over the place. But now I just use this. It automatically finds relevant jobs to match your skills and lets you apply with a single click. You'll be able to see your applications here. And if you get an interview, it'll show up here. I just put in my resume, role, years of experience, location, and within a couple seconds, it had already found a highquality job for me to apply to. If you want to check it out, it'll be the first link in the description down below. Using pure white and pure black is not bad. They're colors, so why not use them? But often there are just better options than black or white. And a lot of it boils down to hierarchy. For example, below the name of the file, we have the size and type of file. This isn't super important information, so we can use a dark gray instead. Same idea for the labels over here or for the borders we just added. Because the elements are well grouped, we can lighten it up, too. In fact, most of the text is light gray or dark purple, not even black. This is a similar idea for dark modes, but because of the distinct focus on eye strain, we can be even more aggressive with lowering the brightness of our grays. Reserving white only for the most important actions. Getting comfortable with using more gray and less black and white is really what differentiates mediocre designers from professional ones. Now, speaking of, dark mode is not just the inverse of light mode. If we were to inverse all the colors on our light mode, this is what we'd end up with. Not awful, but certainly not ideal. First, let's brighten up these borders and the main card since dark colors need to be more different than light colors to see the difference. Our text is all light purple because we're using a very dark purple instead of black on our light mode. Typically, light grays work best on dark mode to make it easier on the eyes than white. But from there, we'll brighten up some of the most important text like the logo and storage used to pure white. Finally, these colors are probably fine, but our logo should be desaturated a touch. So no, you shouldn't just inverse your colors from light to dark. Instead, a palette should be built with the goals of dark mode in mind. Now, these might be our brand colors, but when the user clicks on extra details, we can either have the delete button have a purple background or a red background. The purple background is undeniably more on brand. However, that draws attention to the button and doesn't illustrate its destructive nature. Instead, we use red. And this is why red and green are often in a brand's color palette, even if they aren't a brand color. Because a pop-up like this just simply wouldn't fly from a usability point of view. Red is also often used for notifications, but this is much more flexible than destructive actions and could be swapped with purple in this case. Element states are very important, and we can do a lot with just color. For example, this button is obviously disabled without any other visual cues, just from the light gray and white text. And this is also pretty bulletproof for a dark mode, too. Hovers and clicks are the most common element states. For hover states, use a slightly lighter or brighter version of the base color. For an active or press state, use a slightly darker version. And then for a disabled state, just desaturate the color, assuming it's not already grayscale. But because we don't have hover effects on mobile, we usually just resort to click effects. For example, we don't need anything here. However, adding a slightly darker gray on press makes it feel like you're actually pressing into something. With all those changes, we've taken our awful UI and transformed it in both light mode and dark mode. Color doesn't need to be complex in order to create a userfriendly and effective design. If you want to check out Final Round AI, it'll be the first link in the description. And the Figma files for this design will also be down there, too. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you in the next one.

Everyone and their mother seems to have an AI startup now. And they all look remarkably similar. Like this, this, this, oh, and this. But here's the thing. Some of those UIs are actually really good. So, in this video, we're breaking down the most clever design patterns in modern AI tools, real examples, UI components you can steal, and a few I've built myself to give away for free at the end. First, if you're not starting with a giant prompt box, you're doing it wrong. It seems to be the go-to for most prompt-based tools. And honestly, it's not a terrible design choice. It gets the user trying out the tool immediately. Very effective. And it also gives a much cleaner aesthetic above the fold. Kind of like Google. Also very effective. In fact, it's so effective that ChachiBT and Gemini have both ditched their landing pages entirely. The moment you land, you're in the interface. That says a lot. But just having an input field isn't enough. A great prompt box also has to feel useful. That means previewing PDFs or images like these blocks and claude and grouping large inputs like code blocks so they don't take over the chat. Replet does this well. Pasting code instantly compresses into a clean viewable block. If the AI has broad use cases, then context taking is also very helpful. Think chips that change the mode like brainstorm data and email to get better answers. Cursor does this nicely allowing you to add code context to the chat which gives you the confidence that the AI knows what you want before you even say it. And as AI gets more capable, we're starting to see deep integrations. Think buttons that connect to Google Drive, GitHub, Figma, or even internal tools. You can also build progressive disclosure right into the input. For example, a button to toggle advanced mode or a token cost estimate right above your input. And of course, this should all feel fast. Any loading indicators need to be short, looping, and fluid, like Notion AI's three bouncing dots or Claude's rotating star animation. All this makes the prompt box go from just an input to the control panel for an intelligent product. If your product outputs text, code, or even images, generation history is essential. Tools like ChachiBT organized by session in a vertical list of previous runs. Others like Notion AI tie generations to the original document block. The core design principle is retrievability. That means previewing the first line or short snippet of each generation, allowing deletion of chats, and crucially allowing search, which turns your history into a workspace, not a waste basket. Now, let's talk about memory. Generation history is a record of what happened. But memory is a record of what matters. Memory is a huge opportunity here. If your AI has persistent memory, you absolutely need to show it and let users control it. In our component, we're giving users a dedicated memory panel where they can see the storage space, bulk delete irrelevant content, and add key facts to persistent memory. Chat GBT has implemented this, but most tools still hide memory in settings or don't expose it at all, which is wild. One of the smartest UX patterns we've seen recently, especially from tools like Claude, is inline AI editing. Just highlight any part of the response and type exactly what you want changed. It's fast, contextual, and removes friction. This pattern is also showing up in newer writing tools. Lex.page lets you rephrase a sentence in line with few keyboard shortcuts. Notion AI gives you contextual buttons like improve writing or fix spelling directly under each paragraph. The idea is to keep this short and compact. So, we've just added a few quick selectors and some keyboard shortcuts. For the user, it feels like real-time revision, not regeneration. And speaking of real-time revision, here's a tool that does that for your cover letters. This is a job listing from Open Text. Here's part of the cover letter I wrote. And this is part of the cover letter I had final rounds material generator write. They were virtually identical, but mine took me about 30 minutes to write, and this took about one. All I had to do was upload my resume and paste in the job description. Then just hit generate, and you'll get a strong cover letter customized to that company. If you want to check it out, it'll be the first link in the description down below. Back to the video. Some AI tools don't just generate, they show their work, too. Take Perplexity. It'll show you exactly which steps were taken during research. You'll see documents retrieved, sources cited, and even a flow of logic across multiple hops. This kind of UX makes the product feel intelligent. It shows the user that the AI isn't just pulling answers from the void. It's doing the work, referencing material, and showing its trail. And frankly, it looks kind of cool, too. In our component, we're simulating a mini research trail with three animated steps, searching docs, extracting quotes, and drafting answer. These fade in one by one, so the AI feels like a collaborator, not a black box. Next, users hate waiting. Actually, users hate waiting without feedback. But when you show the AI thinking, even delays become part of the experience. There's a reason why tools like Notion AI, CHBT, and everyone else stream their responses word by word. That trickle of output turns delay into anticipation. Skeleton loading, like in Reloom, plays a huge role here, too. When you're generating a wireframe, the canvas shows placeholders, images, and text box with shimmer effects. so the layout feels alive. Then when the content's ready, it slots exactly into place. In our component, we built a simple loading animation and shimmer effect where the text will eventually appear. It's a tiny thing, but it makes your product feel like it's working alongside the user. A lot of AI outputs feel confident, but aren't the solution? Confidence indicators. Amazon comprehend does this well. If you ask it who was president in 2009 and it returns Barack Obama, it also shows a confident score, maybe 97%. If the model's not sure, it might show 61% or flag the result as uncertain. Twitter would really benefit from that. Visually, we're using a pill-shaped bar below each AI response with a label like high confidence or unverified. We even let users click it for the specific numeric confidence value. Since startups are trying to exude technological supremacy, we're seeing the return of this dark soft glass effect everywhere. You've probably seen it before on pages like GitHub with dark backgrounds, blur, striking gradients, and ever so subtle animations. In Figma, it's super easy to build. You drop a rectangle with some transparency, add a subtle gradient, blur the background, and top it off with a one pixel border and soft inner shadow. We're doing exactly that in our component. Plus, we're adding a gentle shimmer that runs across the border for a subtle animation. Think of it like a luxury glass effect. And that's how to design like every single AI startup. I hope you learned something. Figma files are below to download and I'll see you in the next one.

In the next 7 minutes, I'm going to show you how to create professional UI designs entirely with AI in seconds and fully editable in Figma. All I needed was a few screenshots, a specific prompt, and a pretty cool website. The tool that I used to create this UI is actually Claude, a multi-purpose LLM, but with a recent update has gotten really good at creating UI by writing code. But don't worry, we won't need to touch a single line of code. And I'll show you how we can turn all of this into an editable Figma design. Let's do it. With the uptick of Vibe coding, which is the use of AI coding LLMs to create applications without really a knowledge of code, I thought now was a perfect time to see if Vibe designing works, too. Which brings us to Claude. With a single prompt and one image, it spat out this masterpiece. It's well laid out, looks appealing, and is even complete with micro interactions. Albeit, there are a few too many emojis here for my liking, but that's an easy fix once we jump into Figma. It's even somewhat responsive, too. Getting into Claude, if you're aiming for a specific style, then uploading a reference image is definitely a good idea to create this dashboard. I just uploaded a reference image that I made myself on Figma. However, you definitely don't have to make your own. Instead, let's head over to Dribble and see what we can find. The issue with many Dribble dashboards in particular is there is a lot going on. That's probably what makes them look good. However, I found that Claude typically has a hard time seeing all those little details and as a result doesn't really get the point when you upload an image like this. Instead, for more realistic sites, I really like site inspire.com and something like this could actually work out really well for us if we were to put it into Claude. But instead, I'm going to go for an actual project management tool called Linear. They've definitely got the aesthetic that we're looking for. So, I'll take a screenshot of this for later. But speaking of aesthetic, this is the special website I was talking about called 21st.dev. It's an entire library of UI components either built with AI or built for AI. And it provides the plain code if we open the component which we can just copy over or we can copy the prompt here which allows us to insert this into our designs without really doing all that much work. If we come over to Claude, paste this whole thing in, and just hit go and give it a minute or two, we end up with something like this. This is what Claude has given us with the code that we gave it. Unfortunately, if you were hoping to import this into Figma, you can't because of the code format here. But let me show you how you can now. So, we have our reference image here from linear. But let's start crafting our prompt now. First, you need to make it quite clear that you want it to design something cuz occasionally it won't recognize that's what you want. Additionally, we want to add for it to write in HTML and CSS if you want to export this to Figma later. Second, we want to specify the purpose and intended use. In our case, we're going for a project management dashboard UI to allow users to track ongoing projects and see tasks. Don't just leave it here since this provides a lot of extra context. Third, if you want any specific elements like bar charts, sidebars, navbars, etc., it's a good time to mention them. Claude typically does a pretty good job of this, even if you don't ask, but here we'll specify that we want a sidebar with icons and a Gant chart with colorful bars on it. Finally, it's important to specify that you want it to use an icon library. This is important since otherwise it'll start using emojis like at the start of the video, which isn't really the vibe we're going for. After that, just hit enter and sit back and relax for a minute or two. All right, Claude has finished. And this is the result. Not bad, I'll say. And if I resize the browser, it's actually relatively responsive. Just for reference, this is what it created when I used the exact same prompt, but uploaded this design from Dribble. Like I was saying, it can't effectively copy these small details, so it just excludes them entirely. Back in our good design here, you could tweak this so the sidebar is sticky or that everything is perfectly left aligned here, but I find small tweaks like that are better left for Figma. So, let me show you how to import this whole thing into Figma super easily. So, we're in Figma and all we need to do to pull this in is open up the HTML to design plugin here and switch to the file tab right here. Then we come back to our clawed project. Come to this drop down here and hit download as HTML. Drag that sucker into the box here. And when this pops up, just use all the default settings except for components here. For hover effects, make sure to turn that on. And you'll see why in a second here. After that, just hit go and give it a second. And just like that, you should have a fully functional Figma design. Now, since it's HTML and not an image, all of the elements are exactly how they should be, and there's no weird glitchy bits. However, there are some common little fixes that you will need to make in Figma. Before we get into those fixes though, here is the before and after of what Claude gave me and just a few minutes of tweaking in Figma. The biggest changes, fonts, alignment, and color. Honestly, the same stuff that screws with most actual websites, too. Right off the bat, I don't like how low this line is. And I feel like this should actually be the user's name and icon with an arrow to switch through accounts. We'll line up the items on this menu and then get rid of menu and other labels. And instead, just move settings and help center to the bottom. While the colors Claude chose aren't bad, I don't love them. Instead, we'll make the purples more blue and the backgrounds darker and more purpley gray than bluish. We'll also fix the contrast on these chips down below. We'll add a subtle grid pattern. This is really picky, but if this is the completed color and this is the uncompleted color, then why are all the rectangles down here in the completed color? We'll update that and change the in progress to an actual percent since that tells us nothing. Besides adding a few more icons and settings up here, this screen is virtually done. From there, you could export this as an image and ask Claude to make you a landing page for this dashboard or more screens for the remaining tabs. The sky really is the limit here. I'll leave the link to the claw design and the Figma file down below as per usual. If you enjoyed, consider subscribing and I'll see you guys in the next one.